Distribution is defined by how spread apart the data is.
Where is the center of the data in terms of numerical value and its data points?
A foundational way to understand data distribution
is to quickly see and interpret how range,
median, standard deviation, and the outliers of a dataset.
Some example applications in product management to understand distribution are,
understanding the inherent elasticity of price for a product,
so that you could predict shifts in adoption and retention
if you experiment on different price increases and decreases.
Identifying the outliers of users that may pose as edge cases,
either as underserved or power
users that are using your product in a slightly different way.
Understanding how the data is spread out,
categorizing different peaks into different user segments so that you could
create different features and products for each segment that may have different needs.
The average, also known as the mean,
is the value of the central point in a dataset based on the strength of other values.
The basic formula is simple.
If you have a set of numbers, add them up,
and then divide by the total number of values in your set to get the average.
To calculate averages in Tableau,
you'll want to double-click on one of your measures in the left sidebar.
Click on the drop-down icon in the Measure of
the row section and change the Measure from sum to average.
Ensure your visualization type that you have selected is a text table.
To analyze average by different dimensions or slices,
double-click on one or more of your dimensions in the left sidebar.
The middle data point in your distribution in terms
of the total number of data points is the median.
In this example scenario,
you have a data set that contains real estate transaction prices in Dallas, Texas.
You have seven data points.
The median is $265,000 because it's the middle data point in
your distribution in terms of the total number of
data points ranked from lowest to highest.
If we calculate average,
it will be a little higher than the median in
this scenario due to the outliers skewing the dataset.
Knowing the median is great when you want to gain a frame of
reference on what the central point is of a dataset,
without having it being skewed by heavy outliers.
To calculate the median in Tableau,
it'll be an identical process to calculating average.
You'll want to double-click on one of your measures in the left sidebar.
Click on the drop-down icon in the measure on
the rows section and change the measure from sum to median.
Again, ensure that you select it on text table.
The standard deviation is a measure of how dispersed a dataset is,
or the values clustered together near the average,
or they're spread out across a fairly wide range,
far away from the average.
Are they spread out more on the left side of
the average or the right side of the average?
One standard deviation from the mean is the distance from the mean that
represents 68 percent of all values in the dataset falling within the range.
Two standard deviations from the mean represents
95 percent of all values within that range.
Let's say I have 100 values and the mean is 35.
Say 68 of the values fall within 25 and 45 of the mean.
That means that one standard deviation from the mean is 10.
This 25 and 45 are both within a distance of 10 from the mean.
Too simple to calculate the standard deviation in Tableau.
Follow the same process as what you did to calculate the average and the median,
but this time select standard deviation for a measure.
This represents how far the lower and upper bounds are from the mean
that represents 68 percent of values found in the dataset.